1. Genre Analysis

i. Top 5 Commonly watched Movie Genres

* Comedy, Action, Drama, Adventure and Crime

ii. Descriptive Statistics

mean - 6.46
Median - 6.60
Variance - 1.11
Std - 1.05
range - 1.60 to 9.30

2. Duration Analysis

i. Relationship between movie duration and imdb score
   
result - most of the datapoints are in the duration of 100 - 160, they do not have any significant relationship between them as duration does not influence the IMDB score

ii. Distribution of movie durations

result - they are somewhat normally distributed and positively skewed to the right.

3. language analysis

i. Top 5 common languages

* English, French, Spanish, Mandarin, German

result - irrespective of the language the movie matters for a high IMDb score

4. Director analysis

i. Top 5 directors by movies average imdb score

* Akira, Charles, Tony, Alfred, Damien, Majid, Ron 

ii. Do directors influence the movies average imdb score

* from the visualization i can conclude that directors are definetly influencing the Imdb score

5. Budget analysis

i. Top 5 movies with high profit margin

* Paranormal, Tarnation, The blair witch project, the brothers McMullen, The texas chain saw massacre

ii. Does High Budget of the movies contribute high gross proft margin?

result - Definetly No! from the scatter plot they both do not have any significant relationship between them

6. Other Insights

i. Top 5 Content ratings

* R, PG-13, PG, G, NOt rated

ii. Top 5 country with high gross profit margin

* Afghanistan, Philipines, argentina, taiwan, indonesia

iii. Top 5 genre with high gross profit margin

* Musical, Family, Western, Horror, Fantasy

iv. Top 5 movies with High IMDB score

* Shawnshank redemption, Godfather, The dark knight, godfather part -2 , pulp fiction, schilinder list, The good the bad, The lord of the rings

v. Gross profit margin by year

* In 1932 - 1940 the budget is very high even when compared to the year 2020, 2000 



 


                                               

